---
title: "Reference"
---

-   `./.config.yml`: generic configuration values set by the template.
    -   This is combined with `site.yml` (described above) to produce the Jekyll configuration file `./_config.yml`.
-   `./site.mk`: Make configuration values for this project.
    -   This is included by `Makefile` automatically.
-   `./README.md`: the project's README file.
    -   Not processed by Jekyll, and cannot include `_includes/links.md` for cross-reference links.
-   `./CITATION.md`, `./CONDUCT.md`, `./LICENSE.md`: how to cite, code of conduct, and license respectively.
    -   Also not processed by Jekyll.
    -   These are redundant (their content is also in `_en/filename.md`) but people expect to find these in the root directory.
-   `./Makefile`: re-build everything.
    -   `make` prints a list of targets.
    -   Can regenerate HTML and PDF, check file consistency, count words, etc.
    -   Use `make lang=xx` to run commands for a particular human language (e.g., `make lang=en` to build the English version).
-   `_data/lang_toc.json`: JSON-formatted table of contents data.
    -   This is regenerated by Make using `bin/make_toc.py`.
-   `./_en/`: English-language collection of Markdown files.
-   `./_includes/`: inclusions
    -   `_includes/foot.html`: everything needed in the foot of the page.
    -   `_includes/head.html`: everything needed in the head of the page that doesn't depend on configuration variables.
    -   `_includes/links.md`: table of Markdown-formatted links.
    -   `_includes/listblock.html`: displays a point-form list of lesson metadata (e.g., questions or key points).
    -   `_includes/summary.html`: summarizes metadata from all lessons (e.g., creates a page of learning objectives).
    -   `_includes/toc-bib.html`: display the bibliography in the table of contents.
    -   `_includes/toc-section.html`: display lessons or extras in the table of contents.
    -   `_includes/toc.html`: display the entire table of contents.
    -   `_includes/slug/file.ext`: an inclusion for the lesson with that slug.
-   `./_layouts/`: page layouts.
    -   `_layouts/default.html`: base layout (used directly only for the overall index page for the whole site).
    -   `_layouts/lesson.html`: derived layout for all lesson pages.
-   `./_site/`: if present, holds the HTML pages generated by Jekyll.
    -   Deleted by `make lang=xx clean`.
-   `./bin/`: scripts used to build and check the site.
    -   `bin/bib2md.py`: convert BibTeX bibliography to Markdown.
    -   `bin/check.py`: check various aspects of source files.
    -   `bin/get_body.py`: get the body of a page for conversion to LaTeX.
    -   `bin/get_main_div.py`: get the main `div` from a single page (used for testing purposes).
    -   `bin/make_toc.py`: make the JSON cross-reference file.
    -   `bin/stats.py`: report summary statistics on completed chapters.
    -   `bin/transform.py`: handle HTML-to-intermediate-to-LateX transformation.
    -   `bin/uncode.py`: remove code blocks (used in spell check).
    -   `bin/util.py`: utilities used by other scripts.
-   `./assets/`: static files (CSS, JavaScript, images).
    -   `assets/bootstrap.min.css`: [Bootstrap 4][bootstrap]
    -   `assets/bootstrap.min.js`: [Bootstrap][bootstrap]
    -   `assets/site.css`: custom definitions.
    -   `assets/site.js`: used to clean up bibliographic citations and glossary entries, style tables, etc.
    -   `assets/tango.css`: [Pygments Tango theme][pygments-tango]
    -   `assets/*.svg`: image files used in template (as opposed to figures).
-   `./en_rmd/`: English-language versions of R Markdown files.
    -   `en_rmd/slug.Rmd`: chapter written in R Markdown (turned into `_en/slug.md` by build).
    -   `en_rmd/figures/slug/*.ext`: figures generated by knitting `en_rmd/slug.Rmd` (copied to `figures/slug/*.ext` by build).
    -   `en_rmd/common.R`: common startup code for `.Rmd` files (does not load libraries, but sets options).
-   `./etc/`: holding area for files that aren't being used right now but might be (re-)added later.
-   `./favicon.ico`: toolbar icon.
-   `./figures/`: [draw.io][draw-io] source for figures and all exported figures.
    -   `figures/slug/slug.xml`: source for all diagrams in that lesson.
    -   `figures/slug/something.ext`: PDF, PNG, or SVG export of a single figure from the XML file.
-   `./index.md`: overall home page for site (currently redirects to English-language version).
-   `./requirements.txt`: Pip installation requirements.
    -   Run with `pip install -r requirements.txt`.
-   `./src/`: source files used in Markdown, broken down by chapter.
-   `./tex/`: LaTeX files used to create PDF.
    -   `tex/settings.tex`: package inclusions, macro definitions, etc.
    -   `tex/lang/book.tex`: main file for book.
    -   `tex/lang/book.bib`: BibTeX bibliography for book.
    -   `tex/lang/all.tex`: if present, holds the all-in-one LaTeX generated from the Markdown source.

{% include links.md %}
